---
layout: post
title:  "Let me introduce myself"
date:   2023-11-21 12:00:47 +0200
permalink: /about/
---


* [My posts](https://martinezcoder.github.io/)
* [Github](https://github.com/martinezcoder)
* [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/martinezcoder)
* [Stackoverflow](https://stackoverflow.com/users/1808649/fran-martinez)
* [Exercism](https://exercism.org/profiles/martinezcoder)

## **Hi!**

My name is **Fran Martinez**. Nice to meet you! I am backend developer borned in Barcelona city, although since some years ago I live in an small village in the mountains of Almería, Spain. I started my career in 2005 but it was not until I discovered Ruby that I became a proud developer.

I like all about development culture, from the product definition to development, but I what I most like is to share knowledge and open my mind to other points of view. Every product is the result of a shared artistic process; it's the result of collaborative work, and that's why I like responsible and enthusiastic people, who shares knowledge and who spend their time helping others to improve. This is at least what I try to do.

I have been always looking to work remotely and it was on 2016 when I achieved this dream. Working remotely changed my life and now I am currently a proud evangelist of this working culture.

## **What can I do**

### > Ruby (and Rails)

**11 years** experience with Ruby. From the creation of a Rails app to a **PORO** ruby coder. The Ruby community made me be reborn as a developer in 2012. Since then, I have learn the SOLID principles, design patterns, metaprogramming, git, TDD and Agile. 

About APIs, I have strong experience with GraphQL and JSONAPI. About databases, I can handle any SQL challenge and I have experience in NoSQL databases. Also, I briefly worked with Kafka some time ago for an event sourcing solution and I really loved it! 

I am clearly a backend developer, but I like to understand how frontend works and I am not afraid of having frontend (Javascript, React, Vue) challenges.

### > Design patterns, architecture

I like design patterns and architecture, take part on conversations about refactors, improvements and make scalable solutions. If a solution is not scalable and not easy to understand, then it is not a good solution.

### > Javascript and frontend

During my whole professional career I have been trying to keep myself updated in the frontend side. I am not afraid of Javascript, CSS and HTML and I like to play with frameworks like **React** or **Vue**. In the frontend area I feel like a junior that can easily become a senior in a very short time.

### > Docker and Kubernetes

I used Docker on my local setup for a long time,  but it was not as fast as using native installations, so I decided to go back to native! However, I like the versatility of having services up and running without having to take care about installations. Is the best magic ever!

About production environments, I have experience working with Kubernetes, updating memory size, number of replicas, environment variables, etc.

### > Srum/Agile and Kanban workflows

I have worked with **Scrum** and **Kanban**. I have been **scrum master and team lead** for a team of 7. On the discussion between **Scrum** and **Kanban** I reckon that I am in love with Kanban methodology when it has to be applied to asynchronous remote teams. However, I have years of experience working with Scrum and applying team workflows in companies.


## **More about me**

I am a very friendly person who likes to learn every day as a way of life. I have many hoobies! That's why I like remote jobs, in order to have this balance between professional and personal skills.

I am a peaceful guy who likes to meet friends, practice yoga, play the guitar, learn about renewable energies, and of course reading about programming, philosophy, science fiction and classical novels. I also take care of my organic vegetable garden. 
